docs: add blog post about AI agent security risks (#6220)
promptfoo/promptfoo: site/blog/will-agents-hack-everything.md

    AI hacking,
    Anthropic Claude Code,
    state-sponsored cyberattack,
    AI red teaming,
    offensive security,
    defensive security,
    AI agents,
    cybersecurity,
    geopolitical AI risks,
  ]
date: 2025-11-14
authors: [dane]
tags: [security-vulnerability, ai-security, agents]
---

# Will agents hack everything?

![A promptfoo engineer uses Claude Code to simulate attacks](/img/blog/will-agents-hack-everything/claude-code-ctf.gif)

_A Promptfoo engineer uses Claude Code to run agent-based attacks against a "CTF"—a system made deliberately vulnerable for security training._

## The first big attack

Yesterday, Anthropic [published a report](https://www.anthropic.com/news/disrupting-AI-espionage) on the first known state-level cyberattack carried out autonomously using an AI agent.

To summarize: a threat actor (that Anthropic determined with "high confidence" to be a "Chinese state-sponsored group") used the AI programming tool [Claude Code](https://www.claude.com/product/claude-code) to conduct an espionage operation against a wide range of corporate and government systems. Anthropic states that the attacks were successful "in a small number of cases".

> Anthropic was later able to detect the activity, ban the associated accounts, and alert the victims, but apparently not before at least some amount of real damage was done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anthropic was later able to detect the activity, ban the associated accounts, and alert the victims, but not before attackers had successfully compromised some targets and accessed internal data.
```

(It just so happens that we build [red teaming software for AI](https://www.promptfoo.dev/red-teaming/) here at Promptfoo, and count many of the Fortune 500 among our customers.)

You might see where I'm going with this. Even if the labs could figure out some way to balance all these tradeoffs, so that "legitimate work" is mostly unimpeded while helping with attacks is reliably refused, is that what we should want?

## Geopolitics and safety

The result of blocking offensive red teaming could well be the worst of both worlds. Aggressive state actors like China will still get access to models which can conduct attacks (they have a number of highly capable labs of their own). In the meantime, security teams will be hobbled. They'll be bringing knives to a gun fight.

Perhaps now you can better appreciate the factors which are pulling Anthropic in multiple directions, and why they can't simply "fix it". There are no easy answers here.

## AI hacking is inevitable

We may just need to swallow a rather difficult pill: AI agents _will_ continue to hack systems, and they'll keep getting better and better at it as the models improve.

> Being thoughtless or overzealous in our attempts to stop them from doing it could easily make the situation worse. Instead, security teams will need to stay one step ahead, using the exact same capabilities attackers do to find vulnerabilities before they're exploited.

Reviewer: consider adding contact information at the bottom for media
